Up until this point we've learned how to read files but we had this annoying thing with the cursor and
then we had to close the file.
So how can we fix this.
Well a better way to actually do something like this and do file IO with python is with the built in
with statement.
Let me show you instead of what we had before.
What we're gonna say is with open the name of the file and say as whatever the variable you want.
So my file so now with open you can actually do something like this but you don't have to worry about
closing so most of the time you want to use the With statement.
This is the proper way to work with files in Python.
And if I save here and run my script I get an error because I forgot the column here.
If I run again.
There you go.
I get my output and I don't need to close my file.
Everything is down for me.
So this is a standard way to read a file.
Now what if we wanted to write to a file.
So far we've only read and actually underneath the hood open has a default parameter called mode equals
to R which stands for read so with mode are we are able to read files when we don't specify the mode
it automatically just assumes we're reading but if we wanted to write to a file we can simply do w for
write so if I run this you see that I get an error now unsupported operation not readable because well
the file can only be written so in order for me to read and write I can write R W right.
Well let's see.
No that's actually not how it works.
You think it'll be RW but this is a bit of a trick in order to read and write.
We do read plus so that if I run this all right I'm reading and writing and I get an empty list because
this is now empty.
Okay.
So let's write to a file here let's make this a little bit smaller just so we can see that's better.
Let's say that in this file I want to have text and in this text I'm going to say my file thought right
and I can write whatever piece of text I want.
So let's say Hey it's me.
So now in here if I do print text and I run this I get you'll love it.
Mm hmm.
What is this you love.
Well.
This is a really important right now.
Well we want to focus on is.
Hey it's me.
I've read into a file.
Okay so let's say I wanted to open the file again and actually write again.
Let's say this time around I'm going to write a smiley face if I run this and go back.
All right.
It looks like I wrote to the file but oh is this what we wanted when we write something to a file.
The cursor resets.
Remember when we open a file the cursor goes to 0 and we write to the file and if there's something
already existing in there while we overwrite it.
So we have to be careful.
And by the way this text file just gave us that we wrote two characters the smiley face Okay so how
can we fix this.
How can we make sure that we don't break what we have previously which is hey it's me.
And I just want to add a smiley face at the end.
Well we can use the append mode the append mode is a and this appends to the end of the file if I run
this look at that.
Hey it's me with a smiley face it appends to the end.
So that's the append mode.
Again we can use w to write and if I run this it adds a smiley face.
Now why did it not do like last time and overwrite the existing thing.
Well it's because of our mode w allows us to write to a file previously when we did read and write.
What happened was we read the file.
Let's run this again.
Actually let's go back to hey it's me.
The way it was.
And if I run this again
because we did read and write the cursor was set to zero and overrode it versus if we just did the right
it will assume this is a new file and we just want to well just add the smiley face if I click Run here
you see that now is just smiley face.
So you want to be careful that you use the right mode based on what you need.
Now let's say we wanted to create a file that doesn't exist let's have a file called Happy dot text
or actually no less to set and this writes a sad face.
But remember we don't have this on our desktop.
If I clear this and look at our desktop we don't have a sad dot text.
If I do read plus here so read and write and I run this I get a file not found here if I do a right
here and I run this all right.
It looks like it worked.
If I look at the files I have a sad text now.
So now if I open it I have it sat face text so right.
Also creates a new file if it doesn't exist already or over writes the existing one.
So you want to be careful once again with the mode if whether you want to append whether you want to
read whether you want to read and write.
But most of the time the most common ones are read write and append.
Now in the next video I want to talk about this idea of a file.
I've ridden text files for now but we could have written anything we could have done a dot pie file
if I wanted to.
But what about accessing files that are in different locations such as inside of folders.
We can explore that topic in the next video.